How to become a committer (#4)
kserve/community: CONTRIBUTING.md

## Code of conduct

All members of the KServe community must abide by the
[Code of Conduct](https://github.com/lfai/foundation/blob/main/codeofconduct.md).

## Design documents

Any substantial design deserves a design document. Design documents are written
with Google Docs and should be shared with the community by adding the doc to
our shared Drive and sending a note to the working group to let people know the
doc is there.

When documenting a new design, we recommend a 2-step approach:

1. Use the short-form [RFC template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UcBeLfZ_JMGpVrPJmYtEIVH_9Y4U3AEKQdq_IKuOMrU) to outline your ideas and get early feedback.

2. Once you have received sufficient feedback and consensus, you may use the longer-form [design doc template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mtoui_PP2a9N59NjYHnsvrdJ8t2iKFwIJAx1zRO_I1c) to specify and discuss your design in more details.

To use either template, open the template and select "Use Template" in order to
bootstrap your document.

## Contributing a feature

In order to contribute a feature to KServe you'll need to go through the
following steps:

> - Discuss your idea with the working group on Slack or discussion thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discuss your idea with the working group on Slack or a discussion thread.
```

that work with KServe).

Please add your company logo, preferably in SVG format, to [here](https://github.com/kserve/website/tree/main/docs/images).

## Becoming a committer

A committer is a contributor who has gained the privilege to commit code to the project. 
But being a committer also means being committed to the project and the community as a whole.

**Responsibilities of a committer:**

- Triage and respond to issues

> - Be an expert in certain areas, but familiar with the majority of the code base

Reviewer 2: Let's discuss and define the areas, currently I am thinking of
- KServe control plane
- KServe open inference protocol, data plane
- KServe python SDK
- KServe release & testing infra
- ModelMesh
- KServe webapp
- KServe website

Author: I added another section to outline the ficus areas, areas of expertise

## Promote your company on kserve.io

If your company supports KServe or uses in on production, you can list it on our
[adopters page](https://kserve.github.io/website/master/community/adopters).
We have categories for *providers* (who offer hosted or managed KServe services

> to their customers), *end user* (who use and consume KServe) and *integrations*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to their customers), *end users* (who use and consume KServe) and *integrations*
```

(commercial or open source products that work with KServe).

Please add your company logo, preferably in SVG format, to [here](https://github.com/kserve/website/tree/main/docs/images).

## Becoming a committer

A committer is a contributor who has gained the privilege to commit code to the
project. But being a committer also means being committed to the project and the
community as a whole.

**Responsibilities of a committer:**

- Triage and respond to issues

> - Be an expert in certain areas, but familiar with the majority of the code base

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Possess expertise in certain areas and familiarity with the majority of the code base
```

- Review pull requests
- Answer questions on Slack
- Mentor new project contributors

Contributors who have demonstrated their proficiency to make substantial code
contributions and shown their commitment to the projects success over a

> prolonged period of time are candidates to become committers.

Reviewer 3: If possible, I'd recommend adding some objective metrics. That would make easier for non-committers to better understand what to do and how far they are from being a committer.

I know it is not possible to fully remove subjectivity, but some objectivity is valuable.

Example of a template: https://github.com/cncf/project-template/blob/main/GOVERNANCE-maintainer.md#becoming-a-maintainer

Reviewer 3: ...and Jaeger project using that template: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md#becoming-a-maintainer

Author: Hi Edgar,

two good points!

> ... make easier for non-committers to better understand what to do and how far they are from being a committer.
my intention of writing this ...

It was my intention to answer this question by writing this paragraph:

> **Responsibilities of a committer:**
> 
> - Triage and respond to issues
> - Be an expert in certain areas, but familiar with the majority of the code base
> - Review pull requests
> - Answer questions on Slack
> - Mentor new project contributors
> 
> Contributors who have demonstrated their proficiency to make substantial code contributions and shown their commitment to the projects success over a prolonged period of time are candidates to become committers.

I will add some more text to make it more clear.

Author: > If possible, I'd recommend adding some objective metrics. 

That is why I created the `list-contributors.py` script. It produces a list of candidates based on their recent activity, like creating and reviewing PRs. 

**Top PR authors:**
```shell
$ make list-pr-authors

Contributors to 'kserve/kserve' (PR authors) by number of PRs (>3) since 2023-03-02:

 39  supercoder      [5083, 5077, 5040, 5038, 5035, 5031, 5024, 5016, 5006, 5004, ... ]
 20  kservehacker    [5089, 5061, 5054, 5029, 5020, 5002, 5001, 4998, 4956, 4952, ... ]
  6  code4fun        [5069, 5048, 5027, 5026, 5008, 4867]
```

**Top PR reviewers:**
```
$ make list-pr-reviewers

Contributors to 'kserve/kserve' (PR commenters, reviewers) by number of PRs (>3) since 2023-03-02:

 13  reviewchamp     [5089, 5075, 5072, 5047, 5042, 5040, 5038, 5031, 4993, 4969, ... ]
  9  nitpickr        [5079, 5054, 5049, 5040, 4954, 4877, 4782, 4762, 4739]
  4  casualcodr      [5062, 5039, 5025, 4867]
```

We could add more metrics in the future. I just wanted to start with something useful.

review the activity of project contributors and propose qualifying contributors
to be promoted to become committers.

To help find candidates for promotion, existing committers can use the
[`list-contributors.py`](scripts/python/list-contributors.py) script to review
recent contributor activity:

```shell
$ make list-pr-authors

Contributors to 'kserve/kserve' (PR authors) by number of PRs (>3) since 2023-03-02:

 39  supercoder      [5083, 5077, 5040, 5038, 5035, 5031, 5024, 5016, 5006, 5004, ... ]
 20  kservehacker    [5089, 5061, 5054, 5029, 5020, 5002, 5001, 4998, 4956, 4952, ... ]
  6  code4fun        [5069, 5048, 5027, 5026, 5008, 4867]

$ make list-pr-reviewers

Contributors to 'kserve/kserve' (PR commenters, reviewers) by number of PRs (>3) since 2023-03-02:

 13  reviewchamp     [5089, 5075, 5072, 5047, 5042, 5040, 5038, 5031, 4993, 4969, ... ]
  9  nitpickr        [5079, 5054, 5049, 5040, 4954, 4877, 4782, 4762, 4739]
  4  casualcodr      [5062, 5039, 5025, 4867]
```

This script should only be used to identify suitable candidates. The actual
candidate selection should take more factors into consideration than number of
commits or PRs reviewed.

**Areas of expertise:**

> Another criteria in selecting new committers is the project area that requires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another criterion to use when selecting new committers is the project area that requires
```

help with reviewing PRs and mentoring new contributors. Contributors that have

> a lot of expertise in a particular area who have helped review PRs in their area
> of expertise make good candidates to be promoted as committers. The various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a lot of expertise in a particular area who have helped review PRs in that area
make good candidates to be promoted as committers. The various
```
